= multi-mode-util

== Usage

Locate <tt>multi-mode-util.el</tt>,
<tt>multi-mode-util-common.el</tt>, <tt>multi-mode+viper.el</tt> and
<tt>multi-mode+evil.el</tt> somewhere in your load path.

Write the following line in your <tt>.emacs</tt>.

  (require 'multi-mode-util)

Then you will be able to use functions listed bellow.
- <tt>multi-mode-init</tt>
- <tt>multi-install-chunk-finder</tt>
- <tt>multi-run-in-base-buffer</tt>
- <tt>multi-base-buffer-p</tt>
- <tt>multi-indirect-buffer-p</tt>

This package fixes the following problems in the original <tt>multi-mode</tt>.
- Undo/redo-ing is inconsistent in multiple modes.
- Activating mark (especially with <tt>transient-mark-mode</tt>) accross the boundary between multiple modes does not work.
- States of <tt>viper-mode</tt> get inconsistent in multiple modes.
- States of <tt>evil-mode</tt> get inconsistent in multiple modes.
- Highlighting with <tt>jit-lock-mode</tt> was not working. (See issue #1)
- A lock file is produced even if the file is not modified. (See issue #1)

== Requirement

multi-mode.el:: http://www.loveshack.ukfsn.org/emacs/multi-mode.el

== Example 1

If you are editing HTML file with embedded Python code between
<tt>\<?python</tt> and <tt>?\></tt>, then using the following settings
provides you <tt>html-mode</tt> in HTML code and <tt>python-mode</tt>
in Python code.

  (defun pytml-mode ()
    "Treat the current buffer as a pytml buffer."
    (interactive)
    (html-mode)
    (multi-install-chunk-finder
     "<\\?python[\r\n\t ]" "[\r\n\t ]\\?>" 'python-mode))
  (setq auto-mode-alist (cons '("\\.pytml$" . pytml-mode) auto-mode-alist))

== Example 2

<tt>hatena-diary-super-pre-notation</tt> in the following code enables
specific major mode for certain programming language in the text
between <tt>>|language|</tt> and <tt>||\<</tt>.  <tt>text-mode</tt>
specified to <tt>multi-mode-init</tt> is used for the rest of the text
in the buffer.

  (require 'multi-mode-util)
  (setq hatena-diary-super-pre-languages '(java javascript lisp ruby))
  (defun hatena-diary-super-pre-notation ()
    (interactive)
    (multi-mode-init 'text-mode)
    (dolist (l hatena-diary-super-pre-languages)
      (let ((str (symbol-name l)))
        (multi-install-chunk-finder (concat "^>|" str "|$") "^||<$"
                                    (intern (concat str "-mode"))))))

== Functions

=== multi-mode-init (&optional BASE-MODE)

This function sets the base major mode <tt>BASE-MODE</tt> for the
buffer.  It is equivalent to <tt>(multi-install-mode BASE-MODE nil
t)</tt> and this is implicitly done by the first call of
<tt>multi-install-mode</tt> for a non-base major mode.  So, (unlike in
the older versions) you don't need to call this function explicitly.

=== multi-install-chunk-finder (START-PAT END-PAT MODE)

This function installs a non-base major mode <tt>MODE</tt>.  The major
mode will be activated in portions of buffer between strings matching
with <tt>START-PAT</tt> and <tt>END-PAT</tt> regular expressions.

=== multi-run-in-base-buffer (FUNC &optional TRACK-POSITION)

This function advises a function specified by symbol <tt>FUNC</tt>
being called in the base major mode.  Unless <tt>TRACK-POSITION</tt>
is <tt>t</tt>, the cursor position will be restored after the function
call.
